Docs: Rich history (#22697)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/features/explore/index.md

You can close the newly created query by clicking on the Close Split button.

> ## Query history

Reviewer: I think Query history should be in a separate topic.

Author: But Rich history is only available in Explore. Couldn't it be confusing for users?

Reviewer: The current Explore topic is currently too complex and needs to be broken up. It's a little bit nuts.

I guess it won't do any more harm to keep it in there. I'll deal with it when I get around to rewriting the Explore documentation.

> BETA: Query history is a beta feature.

Query history is a list of queries that you have used in Explore. The history is local to your browser and is not shared with others. To open and interact with your history, click the "Query history" button in Explore.

> #### View query history

Reviewer: Why did you skip from H2 to H4?

Author: Fixed to H3

Query history lets you view the history of your querying. For each individual query, you can:

- Replace Explore query for selected query by clicking on the query card
- Create and/or edit comment
- Copy query to clipboard
- Copy URL link with the query to clipboard
- Star query

#### Manage favorite queries

> All queries that are starred are displayed in "Starred" tab as well. This allows you to reuse queries that you run often without typing them from scratch.

Reviewer: Need more detail and instruction here.

#### Sort query history

> By default query history shows you the most recent queries. This can be changed and history can be sorted by date or by data source name in ascending or descending order. It is possible to sort queries in "Query history" and "Starred" tab. If you are in split mode, chosen sorting mode is applied only to currently active panel.

Reviewer: This is a good example of telling people what is possible to do, but for tasks you need to tell them how to do it.

1. Click the **Sort** field.
2. Select one of the following options:
   * **Option** - Define option.

> **Note:** Sorting only applies to the currently active panel, and it does not persist beyond your current Grafana session.

Reviewer: Also, be aware of passive constructions like "This can be changed" and "It is possible to." Try to write in the active voice, addressing the second person imperative. "You do this."

Example: You can sort history by date or by data source name. (Followed by instructions for how to do it.)

#### Filter query history

Filter query history in "Query history" and "Starred" tab by data source name. In "Query history" tab is is also possible to filter queries by date using the slider. If you are in split mode, filters are applied only to your currently active panel.

#### Query history settings

> Query history can be customized by:

Reviewer: These settings might be easier to understand if you sorted them into a table.

### Filter query history

Filter query history in Query history and Starred tab by data source name:

1. Click the **Filter queries for specific data source(s)** field
2. Select the data source for which you would like to filter your history. You can select multiple data sources.

In **Query history** tab is is also possible to filter queries by date using the slider:

- Use vertical slider to filter queries by date.
- By dragging top handle, adjust start date.
- By dragging top handle, adjust end date.

> Note: If you are in split mode, filters are applied only to your currently active panel.

### Query history settings

You can customize the query history in the Settings tab. Options are described in the table below.

| Setting                                                       | Default value                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Period of time for which Grafana will save your query history | 1 week                                  |
| Change the default active tab                                 | Query history tab                       |

> | Only show queries for datasource currently active in Explore  | false                                   |

Reviewer: Is `false` lowercase in the UI? Default values should match whatever is in the UI.

Author: there is a toggle switch - so I am not sure if it should be lower or upper cased 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30407135/76563431-afcd3a00-64a7-11ea-8958-3dad1b1e1052.png)

> | Only show queries for datasource currently active in Explore  | false                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
| Only show queries for datasource currently active in Explore  | False                                   |
```

You can close the newly created query by clicking on the Close Split button.

## Query history

> BETA: Query history is a beta feature.

Query history is a list of queries that you have used in Explore. The history is local to your browser and is not shared with others. To open and interact with your history, click the **Query history** button in Explore.

### View query history

Query history lets you view the history of your querying. For each individual query, you can:

- Replace Explore query for selected query by clicking on the query card.

> - Create and/or edit comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create and/or edit a comment.
```

> - Copy query to clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy a query to the clipboard.
```

> - Copy URL link with the query to clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy a URL link with the query to the clipboard.
```

> - Star query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Star a query.
```

### Manage favorite queries

> All queries that have been starred in **Query history** tab by clicking on star icon are displayed in **Starred** tab as well. This allows you to access your favourite queries faster, and to reuse these queries without typing them from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All queries that have been starred in the Query history tab are displayed in the Starred. This allows you to access your favorite queries faster and to reuse these queries without typing them from scratch.
```

### Sort query history

> By default query history shows you the most recent queries. This can be changed and you can sort your history in **Query history** and **Starred** tab by date or by data source name in ascending or descending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, query history shows you the most recent queries. You can sort your history in by date or by data source name in ascending or descending order.
```

1. Click the **Sort queries by** field.
2. Select one of the following options:
   - Time ascending
   - Time descending
   - Data source A-Z
   - Data source Z-A

> > Note: If you are in split mode, chosen sorting mode is applied only to currently active panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: If you are in split mode, then the chosen sorting mode applies only to the active panel.
```

### Filter query history

> Filter query history in **Query history** and **Starred** tab by data source name:

Author: ```suggestion
Filter query history in Query history and Starred tab by data source name:
```

> Filter query history in **Query history** and **Starred** tab by data source name:

Reviewer: Do not bold tab names unless you are instructing the user to click them. Please remove the bold from tab names in this document.

1. Click the **Filter queries for specific data source(s)** field

> 2. Select data source for which you would like to filter your history. You can select multiple data sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the data source for which you would like to filter your history. You can select multiple data sources.
```

In **Query history** tab is is also possible to filter queries by date using the slider:

> 1. Use vertical slider to filter queries by date.

Reviewer: Please convert this list to a bulleted/unordered list. The sequence of the items is not important, so it should be unordered.

2. By dragging top handle, adjust start date.

> 3. By dragging top handle, adjust end date.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use vertical slider to filter queries by date.
- By dragging top handle, adjust start date.
- By dragging top handle, adjust end date.
```

> 3. By dragging top handle, adjust end day.

Author: ```suggestion
3. By dragging top handle, adjust end date.
```

> Note: If you are in split mode, filters are applied only to your currently active panel.

### Query history settings

> Query history can be customized by:

Author: ```suggestion
Query history can be customised in **Settings** tab: 
```

> Query history can be customised in **Settings** tab: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the query history in the Settings tab. Options are described in the table below. 
```

> | Settings                                                      | Default value     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Setting                                                      | Default value     |
```

Reviewer: Are these the names of the settings?

| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Period of time for which Grafana will save your query history | 1 week            |
| Change the default active tab                                 | Query history tab |
| Only show queries for datasource currently active in Explore  | false             |

> In query history settings you can also delete all of your query history by clicking on **Clear query history** button. Your history will be deleted permanently.

Author: ```suggestion
| Setting                                                                                                | Default value                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------  |
| Period of time for which Grafana will save your query history   | 1 week                                                         |
| Change the default active tab                                                         | Query history tab                                      |
| Only show queries for datasource currently active in Explore  | false                                                              |
| Clear query history                                                                           | Permanently deletes all stored queries.  |
```

```

> In query history settings you can also delete all of your query history by clicking on **Clear query history** button. Your history will be deleted permanently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also delete all of your query history by clicking **Clear query history** button. Your history is permanently deleted.
```

Reviewer: I suggest adding this to the table above.

| Clear query history | Permanently deletes all stored queries. |

Author: Added to table

## Query history

> BETA: Query history is a beta feature.

> Query history is a list of queries that you have used in Explore. The history is local to your browser and is not shared with others. To open and interact with your history, click the "Query history" button in Explore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query history is a list of queries that you have used in Explore. The history is local to your browser and is not shared with others. To open and interact with your history, click **Query history** in Explore.
```

Reviewer: Per the [Documentation style guide](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md) and [Microsoft Style Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/), UI items should be bold format.

Suggestions can appear under the query field - click on them to update your query with the suggested change.

> - For counters (monotonically increasing metrics), a rate function will be suggested.

Reviewer: Again, passive voice. Call out who or what is doing the suggesting, or organize this information in a table.

Author: Everything below this is just Prettier changing  asterisks to hyphens and is not relevant to Rich history.

Log data can be very repetitive and Explore can help by hiding duplicate log lines. There are a few different deduplication algorithms that you can use:

> - `exact` Exact matches are done on the whole line, except for date fields.

Reviewer: Another example of reference information that could be put in a table.

Reviewer: Why are you removing the asterisks and replacing them with hyphens? Per the [Markdown style guide](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-markdown-guide.md), preferred bullet style is asterisk.

Author: > Why are you removing the asterisks and replacing them with hyphens? Per the Markdown style guide, preferred bullet style is asterisk.

It is not me, it is Prettier as it is their default setting yo use hyphens instead of asterisks.
